.TH TIFILEUTIL 1 "August 1, 2023"

.SH NAME
tifileutil - a program for manipulating computer files suitable for TI graphing calculators

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtifileutil\fP [\-h / \-\-help] [\-v / \-\-version] [command] [arguments]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBtifileutil\fP program allows you to perform various operations on computer files suitable for the TI-Z80, TI-eZ80 and TI-68k series of graphing calculators.

.SH OPTIONS
\fBtifileutil\fP accepts the following options:

.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP
Display a list of all command line options and commands.

.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-version\fP
Output the version info.

.SH EXAMPLES
Dump a file supposed to be suitable for TI calculators as a C hex array to an output file:

.TP
tifileutil dump -f chexarray romdump_9x/romdump.89z -o rom89.h -n romDump89 -s romDumpSize89 -c 8 -m 64

.TP
Create TI file header and footer for a raw binary:

.TP
tifileutil wrap \-n 'ROMDUMP' dump83p.bin \-p \-o dump83p.8xp

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2006-2010 Benjamin Moody

Copyright (C) 2010      Jon Sturm

Copyright (C) 1999-2009 Romain Lievin

Copyright (C) 2009-2023 Lionel Debroux

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

This program and its source code is distributed under the terms of the 
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
The canonical place to find tifileutil and some miscellaneous information is at https://github.com/debrouxl/tilibs (www.tilp.info).

You can also look at http://lpg.ticalc.org and http://www.ticalc.org for others TI related programs for Linux. French people can also look at http://www.ti-fr.org and http://tiplanet.org.

.SH AUTHOR
Original authors: Romain Lievin (tf2hex), Benjamin Moody (tipack & titools).

tifileutil unified design and implementation, including modifications to the original tools: Lionel Debroux.

.SH THANKS
Thanks to the original authors of the code blocks embedded into tifileutil.

.SH SEE ALSO
tilp(1)
